Welcome back.
I want to talk quickly about global variables and how evil they are.
I mean if you were paying attention you might be asking yourself Andre why don't we just do global variables
all the time remember how we had global lexical environment.
Why don't we just declare all our variables into the global scope because whatever function we use.
Well we'll have access to all those variables.
Wouldn't that be nice and everything has access to everything and we don't have to worry about undefined
undeclared variables instead of having something like previously where we have these weird scope chains.
Doesn't that make our code more complex harder to understand.
Well there's a few issues with what we call polluting the global namespace having too much data on our
global execution environment.
Remember we have limited space limited memory right.
And we talked about how memory leaks happen when we just have too much stuff in our memory heap that
eventually it just overflows making things slower and slower and slower until our browsers crash and
one of the main ways that we do that is with global variables but now you're thinking well I'm only
going to declare a few variables I'm not going to just have so many that I'm going to completely crash
the web browser.
Well there's another issue here with global variables and why we want to avoid or minimize our use of
global variables.
Let's have a look at an example.
You see the issue with global variables is that we can have variable collisions.
For example imagine if we had multiple scripts here which as our applications get larger and larger
we have more than just one JavaScript file.
Right.
And let's say we have in here a variable Z that equals to one we have a variable Zizi that equals two
to make sure I can spell here and let's say we have variable z z equals to three and let's just add
another one let's say four.
We don't need this script for now and you know what this one I'm going to leave it at Z and let's say
ten thousand I'm going to save and I'm going to refresh.
All right.
I refresh the page now.
If I look at Z here what would I have.
Well I get ten thousand I've overridden whatever I had at the top over here that is z equals one because
we had a collision and the way this works is that in the HCM I'll file all these script tags get combined
essentially into one execution context.
Right.
So everything gets bunched up together.
Everything is on the global execution context and they overwrite each other.
If there's any duplicates so this creates a lot of possible bugs where we write different variables
and maybe we think we're being safe here but somebody on another file or writes one of our supersecret
important variables.
So how do we solve this issue and we have an entire section on this topic on the idea of modules.
But I want to scratch the surface here in the next video when it comes to scopes and that is how we
use what we know now about scope and scope chains to avoid the issue of global variables.
I'll see in the next video by.